How can we decompose strategic business goals and get to the Structural Division?
Let's talk about how we can decompose strategic business goals and get to the Structural Division.
If we have about 20 goals in the corporate map, we start decomposing them with the projection of personnel and business processes.
Usually, all the goals that we have stated in the projection of personnel and business processes are decomposed.
We think about the activities and projects that need to be accomplished to achieve these goals, as well as the principles that need to be followed to achieve them.
Let's go back to the company that works in the kitchen furniture market.
In the business process section, they have a goal that sounds like an increase in the quality and functionality of the product.
At the strategic planning stage, the work in the mini-groups was decided that there are 6 main ideas that will contribute to the growth of the quality and functionality of the product.
The company is going to implement the quality management methods of the 6SIGM system.
There is such a fashionable system 6SIGM, and some thoughts seem very good to the company, and it is going to implement it.
To increase the quality and functionality of the product, it is important for the production personnel to be interchangeable.
The third point is that innovations should be introduced quickly.
The company does not invent innovations, it actively learns from the Italians, Germans and Scandinavians and tries to master it quickly.
It is clear that high-quality products need to be equipped with high-quality components.
The company needs high-tech equipment with high level of automation.
The production site where it is produced already has it, but it needs to be installed on two new production sites.
In addition, the company is going to develop a corporate production standard, in which all the nuances of the production of the product will be described in as much detail as possible.
Typical or most common mistakes will also be indicated, which employees at different stages of production of the product can make, and which can affect the quality and functionality of the finished cuisine.
The goal of improving the quality and functionality of the product was broken down into sub-goals, which can be called events, tasks, projects and principles.
The second example is the same company, the same business process project.
The goal is to build a strong brand.
A brand can be defined as a competitive idea.
The company is trying to sell its clients Italy along with its own furniture.
The promotion of the company is in every way a way to show off the Italian side.
One of the principles stated in the event system is the bet on Italian.
The channels of communication with clients are also prescribed.
This is an advertising video on TV, an ad on the radio.
This is a fairly important value for the company, as it gradually acquires advertising on the Internet and in the SME.
In addition, some money will be spent on external advertising and corporate booklets plus catalogs.
The website that the company has is now considered to be outdated.
The company is going to remake it and invest money in it, considering it a very important tool for building a strong brand.
This is how the goal of building a strong brand looks like in this business.
This slide shows a list of their goals and indicators of the business level in general.
You can see that the goal of increasing the business value is monitored through the indicator of the size of the capital.
What is the value of the capital at a given time.
The goal of increasing the profit is monitored through the indicator of the economic profit.
The goal of increasing the satisfaction of the clients is tracked by two indicators.
This is a complex index of satisfaction of the clients.
They offer the clients to fill out a questionnaire.
We listed the main factors.
These are quality and functionality, design and passive, service support, deadlines, how the salon works.
These are the main factors.
The second indicator that the company uses to monitor this goal is the number of clients' ads.
If we go down to the business processes, there is a goal of increasing the speed of order execution.
The indicator is quite clear here.
The average deadline for order execution.
Here they have another indicator, which is not indicated here.
This is the number of orders made on time.
We promised clients such deadlines.
There is some number that we managed to meet the agreed deadlines.
There is some number of orders that we could not meet the agreed deadlines.
Another goal of the business processes is the introduction of design and technological innovations.
The number of these innovations that were implemented.
The expansion of the network of salons is monitored through two indicators.
This is a deviation from the schedule of opening of salons and the budget.
The main indicator is the increase in the staff qualification.
This is the percentage of jobs filled out by competent staff.
And the last goal is to increase the satisfaction of the staff.
There are two indicators, which are also quite clear.
The index of satisfaction as a pre- and the current as a late.
In this slide you can see that the company connects the system of goals and indicators of the business level in general with the organization.
The organization is composed of four divisions.
This is the division, which is headed by the financial director of FED.
This is the division, which is headed by the director of production.
He is in charge of all production, all logistics, design, as well as the service center.
The marketing director in this company is in charge of marketing and sales, which are carried out in the salons.
And finally, there is a HR manager in the company.
The crosses in this matrix indicate that this structural division bears a certain responsibility for the good or bad value of a given indicator.
Two crosses indicate that the responsibility for the good or bad is greater than that of the others.
For example, the value of the business's own capital.
To some extent, everyone is responsible for the size of their own capital.
Everyone contributes to the increase of the value of their own capital.
But it has been decided that the role of the financial director is slightly greater than that of the others.
The average term of the order is decided by the division, which is headed by the financial director,
by the division, which is headed by the production director, and by the division, which is headed by the marketing director.
The fault or merit of the production managers is usually greater than that of the others.
Therefore, we put two crosses in the column DP, the production director.
The flow of personnel is undesirable, which can be a problem for the company.
This also applies to absolutely all managers of the second level.
But it has been decided that the main fault or merit is usually the fault or merit of the HR.
This matrix is a good basis for making clear and understandable maps of structural divisions.
A small example of the responsibility for the value of the indicator is the undesirable flow of personnel.
Imagine that the financial director of a company receives information from the manager on the personnel via email.
Here is the content.
The manager, digging on the Internet, found a resume of an employee who works in an accounting firm subordinate to the financial director.
She is secretly looking for a job from the employer.
The task of the HR is to periodically look on the Internet and see if the employees are looking for a job in secret from the employer.
So, the resume of one employee was found on one of the sites, and she is looking for a job.
HR informs the financial director that her subordinate is trying to find a job in secret from the employer.
The financial director calls her subordinate and asks her,
Masha, we found your resume on the Internet, you are looking for a job in secret from us.
What happened? What is wrong? What are the problems?
Masha asks, are you satisfied with my work?
The financial director says, yes, Masha, we are very satisfied with your work, you are a great fellow.
You are doing great in your journal No. 7, which we entrusted you with.
We have big plans and visions for you, you are our personnel reserve.
We hope that you will develop very well in our company.
Masha asks, please tell me about the level of salary that you offer me.
How much does it compensate my efforts?
The financial director says, I am sorry, Masha, I don't know how much your experts earn in the market.
If this amount is not enough for you, why didn't you come and tell me that you are not enough,
I think I should earn more, I would gladly raise your salary.
You should have told me about it. I think that if people don't ask, they are satisfied.
Masha says, my parents raised me differently.
They told me that I shouldn't ask, I should work well,
and employers should see it, appreciate it and add to it.
But I shouldn't ask.
Masha says, it is easier for me to quit the company than to ask.
So, what did she do?
She already talked to other employers, they raised her salary urgently,
they tried to raise it, but she left anyway.
The general director is in a very bad mood, because the future financial director has left.
He had high hopes for Masha, he thought that she would be the future financial director.
And here is the question.
Who should be executed in this situation?
The financial director or HR?
Whose fault is it that this employee left the company?
We can conclude that it was both of them.
I think that HR's task is not only to sit on the Internet and look at the results.
Ideally, HR should have drawn a portrait of Masha for her direct manager and told the financial director,
Masha is specific, she won't ask.
And the second thing is the level of salary in the market for such specialists.
It is up to you to decide.
It is your budget, if you think that you should raise the salary, do it.
If you think that it is unnecessary, don't do it.
I told you in time that the portrait is like this, the salary is like this.
If HR did all this, there would be no claims to it.
But in this situation, there are obvious questions for both.
And for the direct manager, who must do his job,
he must provide his resources, including the budget, to HR,
which helps the functional managers to do it.
In the next slide, I want to show you an example of the system of goals and indicators of a factory
that is part of a large machine-building enterprise.
The head of the factory has 12 key indicators in front of him.
One of the financial indicators is the indicator of the profitability of sales.
A few words about the specifics of the work of this factory.
Almost all the products produced at this factory are consumed by the holding company.
And the prices are internal, prescribed by the headquarters.
The factory director is told that the products produced at the factory are sold to the holding company at a certain price.
If your costs are lower, you earn a profit.
If your costs are higher than the prices we brought from the headquarters, you earn a loss.
Some amount of products is sold to external clients outside the company.
A small amount.
The planned profitability of sales, the share of the internal profit, was 10%.
In fact, it turned out to be 8%.
In fact, they were able to make only 8%.
The costs at this factory were slightly higher than planned.
The prices are fixed, they remained the same as planned.
But the costs were obviously higher, so the profitability of sales was actually lower.
In the projection of the client, there are three indicators.
This is the number of advertisements for 100 deliveries,
the number of new clients who were able to attract,
and the number of contracts.
In fact, the number of clients who left, who stopped working at this factory.
In the project, there are five key indicators.
This is the average delivery time to the client in a day.
The second indicator informs about the percentage of compliance with the client's delivery deadlines.
According to the plan, we would like the factory to be 97% compliant with the deadlines.
In fact, they managed to do it even at 99%.
The third indicator at this factory is how well the suppliers with whom this factory works
fulfill their obligations by deadlines.
The fourth indicator is the share of the marriage.
The fifth indicator is the productivity of production.
This is the last indicator in this projection.
In the project, the staff monitors three values.
This is the disease, the injury, the injury-prone production.
People can injure their hands or get sick with a cold in winter.
These are undesirable phenomena.
Ideally, no more than 5% of the working time is lost due to the fact that people got sick or injured.
The liquidity of the staff and the satisfaction are two indicators that add to the disease.
The arrows in the second column inform us about the indicator for increase or decrease.
The more, the better.
This is the profitability of sales, the number of new clients, or the compliance of the client's delivery deadlines.
The less, the better.
This is the number of advertisements for 100 deliveries, the liquidity of the staff, the share of marriages.
In the third column, the planned values are recorded for a certain period.
Next, we see the fact.
Next, we see the fact, the actual value.
And the third column is very interesting.
They use such a value as the degree of the goal.
How close are we to the goal?
As if 12 carrots were hung high above us, and we have to reach each of them.
How high did we jump?
Did we reach it?
This is what the third column reports.
The degree of the goal.
The profitability of sales is 10%.
In fact, we managed to achieve 8%.
8% profitability of sales.
The degree of the goal is 80%.
Next, the number of advertisements for 100 deliveries.
We were told, or we wrote such a goal ourselves, or we agreed with the superiors to this value.
No more than 3 advertisements for 100 deliveries.
No more than 3.
But in fact, it turned out 4 pieces.
4 times the clients sent advertisements.
Accordingly, the degree of the goal will be 67%, if we round off.
67%.
We can find in this list the quantities that were overrun.
For example, the number of new clients.
The agreed goal is 10 new clients within a period.
In fact, the company managed to attract 12 new clients.
Overrun, 120% execution.
The same is true for the compliance with the delivery deadlines.
The target value is 97% of deliveries on time.
In fact, we managed to do as much as 99%.
We register 102% in the third column.
The degree of the goal.
The disease rate of the staff.
We wanted no more than 5% of the total working time to be spent on a cold.
On the sick.
In fact, we got worse.
8.5% of the total working time was lost due to the fact that people were sick.
Accordingly, in the third column we calculate the degree of the goal.
It will be very small. 30%.
The carrot was hanging high enough.
We jumped, but not very high.
Not very high.
According to this parameter.
What's next?
Next, you can just add up.
These 12 are divided by 12.
To calculate the average value of the degree of the goal.
On average, it turns out 81.3.
If you just add up all the values, you get 12.
To calculate the average value.
You can do it a little differently.
This is probably more interesting.
You can take into account the weights.
You can assume that not all indicators are equally significant.
Not all indicators are equally significant.
Not all indicators are equally heavy.
Some are lighter, some are heavier.
For example, in this slide we see the version with weights.
The most important indicators are the profitability of sales.
Its weight is 0.15.
The number of advertisements for 100 deliveries from customers is also 0.15.
The compliance of delivery dates to customers is also 0.15.
The share of marriages is also included in this list.
These are very significant indicators.
All other indicators are important.
They have some weight, but it is slightly less.
But the sum should be 1.
And then we weigh the SDC column.
The degree of goal achievement.
On the weight column.
And add it up in the third column.
The degree of goal achievement is slightly less.
In the previous slide, it was 81.3.
Here it is 80.
Looking at this slide, we see that the plant has 80% of the indicators that we set.
Or that were agreed with it at the stage of strategic planning.
As a rule, we write the goals for the structural units according to the principle of a two-way road.
According to the principle of bottom-up and top-down.
It is very important that the employees of the structural units participate in the development of the goals that they will achieve.
They are slightly different in this regard.
Most people feel bad if they are married without their consent.
If the employee was invited to the stage of the development of the goals,
if he was listened to, at least his opinion was heard.
Even if he left with an opinion imposed on him from above.
But at least he spoke up, at least he was heard.
He will have a slightly different attitude to the goals that he must achieve.
So, we see that the plant, headed by some person, achieved 80% of the goals that were set for him.
There are only 12 parameters.
We are trying to look at this plant from all sides.
A convenient visualization format is not a table, but a graph.
In particular, this plant uses such a web, which I would like to offer to your attention.
All the same indicators, only not in a table, but in the form of a so-called petal diagram.
Or as they call it, a web.
Ideally, this line should go through 100%.
Ideally, each indicator is made up to 100%.
Ideally, we jumped up and got every carrot that was hanging high enough.
Somewhere we even jumped the carrot by two indicators.
Somewhere we did it at a high enough percentage, and somewhere we had failures.
The deeper the curve bends inward, to zero, the worse.
The more the head of the unit should be on guard.
But we see that there were quite serious failures with the disease of the staff.
Too much work time was lost due to the fact that people were sick or injured.
We see that the marriage was not so good.
The curve is quite far from 100%.
According to the terms of delivery, the suppliers were not so good.
But there were quantities where the plant worked well.
This is just a tool for visualization.
But since most people are visual, they want to look at some graphs, not at the table.
For example, these.
It is logical to assume that the system of goals and indicators of the structural unit should be tied to the system of labor payment.
The work of this structural unit, this plant, as part of a large machine-building enterprise, we control by 12 key indicators.
The report can be submitted in the form of a web, in the form of a table.
In addition to the fact that we tie the system of goals and indicators to the system of reporting, we usually tie it to the system of labor payment.
The system of labor payment for the head of this plant is as follows.
He has some fixed amount and a bonus.
Let's assume that the planned value of the bonus is 1000 conditional cash marks.
This 1000 conditional cash marks will be paid to him if all indicators are met 100%.
If the SDC, the degree of achievement of the goal, is 100%.
If there is a re-performance, then more will be paid.
Let's assume that there was no re-performance, but there was a 100% execution of each indicator.
Accordingly, the planned value turns into a fact, and the bonus will be 1000.
But if, as in this example, we see that the degree of achievement of all goals is not 100%, but 80%,
then the bonus that is paid to him in addition to the fixed fee will be equal to 803 euros.
So, we see on this slide that the value of the bonus added to the fixed fee is tied to the achievement of the goal values of 12 indicators,
sorted by four projections with a balanced system of indicators.
In any case, we should have indicators that inform how well the staff works in this department,
what is its qualification, what are its competencies.
In any case, we should have indicators that inform us how fast and high-quality the processes are in this department.
We should have a projection of clients that allows us to get feedback from external clients or internal clients.
And finally, all structural units live in the budget.
Some structural units, in addition to the budget, have a planned value of income.
Therefore, the compensation system should take into account the value of the indicators from all four projections.
In order to successfully implement the strategy, it is necessary to spend time on transforming it into a goal and task understandable for individual employees and structural units,
provide indicators, set checkpoints and tie the labor payment system.
One of the most controversial issues that can be discussed at the stage of the implementation of the strategy is the question of who in the company we explain the business strategy to.
We explain this only to deputy managers of the second level, whether we should go down to the third level and whether we should reach the rank and file.
It is clear that in a construction company, the foreman on the construction site cuts tasks for his subordinates every day.
He tells the stone workers that today we lay the wall, the height at the end of the day should be such, we lay the bricks like this, and explains some special nuances.
He tells other workers that today we dig a trench, we will dig from the fence to the lunch, the depth of the trench is such, the width is such, and so on.
If all this is done, then the compensation at the end of the week will be as follows.
The task cutting today somehow contributes to the achievement of strategic goals of the construction organization as a whole,
but should we explain to the staff, to the public, how this will affect the achievement of corporate goals, and why we should do it this way, and not in another way.
Why do we have to bypass the wall that we see in front of us, and why should we not jump over it?
If we stay with the construction business, then I remember the logic of my one acquaintance, who is in charge of a construction company.
He says that he understands the importance of a business strategy. It is an important thing in a competitive market.
Without a clear strategy, you cannot survive in a competitive market.
But if you go down to the second level, to the hierarchy, if you come to the chief engineer, he tells me, and talk to him about the strategy,
then the chief engineer will say that the strategy is a game that is sold in the child's world.
He bought his son recently, and he does not know more about the strategy, and it is unlikely that he will guess that the strategy is useful for the business.
He is not able to clearly formulate the strategy of the construction organization, although he is the chief engineer, the second person in the company.
Going down to level 3, we talk to the foreman. According to my acquaintance, the foreman does not know the word strategy at all.
The chief engineer knows, but thinks that it is a game, and the foreman does not know the word strategy at all.
Finally, we go down to the fourth level in the hierarchy, where, according to the chief engineer, the irreplaceable work.
This is how he calls them in his company. He does not consider it necessary to explain the strategy to them, because he has an extremely low educational and intellectual level in the company,
and they are extremely unloyal. Today they work for him, tomorrow they will move to another place, and then they will come back to him.
The foreman's settings. They are given tasks to do today, to dig from the fence to lunch.
It is clear that the achievement of these tasks contributes to the fact that the company has some goals in the client or financial sector.
The general manager does not collect the strategy of the staff of the private sector in this company.
It seems to me that people are different. There are people in the company who work better if they understand why we bypass the wall on the left, and not on the right, and why we do not jump over it.
It seems to me that there are a number of such people in any organization. There are a number of other people who work well, very well, if they were told that they dig from the fence to lunch.
Why exactly from the fence and why exactly before lunch, why is the trench so and not so, and how it correlates with the achievement of the goal in the client sector, they do not know.
But at the same time, they work very well and do not want to bother themselves with the reflection on why we do it.
If the management of the company begins to explain this to them, they say, do not waste your time, both yours and ours.
Tell them what we should do today or tomorrow, but do not explain to us why it is so and why it is not otherwise, and how it is related to higher goals.
We will do everything well. But I think that such people should not be explained.
I had a discussion with my friend who works in a telecommunications company. We argued whether the company's strategy could affect the list of the goals and indicators of an ordinary employee.
For example, a driver who drives a boss to a meeting, takes him to the airport, meets the boss at the airport, sometimes throws the accounting into the bank.
It would seem that everything is the same, first, second, third, fourth gear, do not drive through pits so that the car does not often break, do not violate the rules of traffic, and so on.
I worked in a business school with a certain strategy, or in a telecommunications company with a certain strategy. Its actions are basically the same. And the map of the person's goals and indicators should coincide.
But after discussing, we decided that it does not coincide completely. In the business school, in this industry, there can be a strategy, there should be a strategy.
In this industry, the business school can differ from other organizations in that it offers Western diplomas on the market. One of the competitive advantages. We offer a diploma program of serious Western business schools.
In this business school, there are always some foreigners, Swedes, Germans, French, Americans, and periodically you have to go to the airport to meet another foreign guest.
No one requires a perfect English from the driver in this company. But to ask, how was your flight, he is in condition. The driver in this organization is told that he must know English.
At least at a simple level, because the strategy of our business school involves internationalization. We work with Western programs, Western diplomas, we have a lot of foreigners, you need to build relations with them, support these relations.
You also participate in this, periodically you meet them at the airport and take them there. You don't have to just look at the road, support the conversation, ask how are you, how was the flight, and so on. You need to know English. This is a small strategic feature of your work in our business.
Everything else is the same. First, second, third gear, do not drive through pits, do not violate the traffic rules. If a person is fired from this company and goes to work in another, even in the telecommunications industry, he will also be told there, first, second, third, fourth gear, do not drive through pits, do not violate the traffic rules.
But, I will add, in our business, it is very difficult to distinguish yourself from your competitors. The telecommunications industry is quite difficult in terms of making distinctions from each other. The only way to distinguish yourself is by the brand colors and logos.
In one organization in this industry there are red and white colors, in another there are yellow and red, and in the third there are blue and green. And in one organization in this industry there is a small fleet of corporate cars that are painted in corporate colors. But it's not good for the company's face to drive around the city dirty.
And in the map of the driver in this company, it is written to wash the car five times a day. Not every day, but if the weather on the street is bad, then he has to wash the car six and seven times a day. This is an element of a marketing strategy. Popularization of corporate colors, corporate color propaganda is one of the important factors of competitive struggle in this business.
And the driver is told, here is a small specificity of your strategic work in our business, that you have to wash the car more often. You may not know English, in another company, with a different strategic specificity, you must know English, but in our business you can be without a language at all. But you have to wash the car often. And this is your small strategic specificity.
And to finish my speech, I would like to quote one American manager, who says that you may have a fantastic strategy, but if it is not translated into understandable for individual employees, let it be for ordinary people who fill the fuel tank on the gas station,
and this process is not controlled, then all your wonderful plans may simply end up in the box of the desk and not be implemented in practice.
The conclusion, the most important one from our course, is that the strategy in the company is the business of everyone. The fundamental concept of the development of the organization must be broken down into a package of actions understandable for individual employees, provided with indicators and designated by certain points of control, tied to the reporting system and necessarily with the stimulation system.
The main conclusion of this course is the following. The strategy of the company, as a rule, is a short-formulated one, it must be translated into a package of actions understandable for individual employees.
Very often in companies you can face the following problem. An employee comes from the sales department to the manager and says, boss, I read on the company's internal website, our internal website, our strategy is briefly formulated, it excites me very much, I am two-handed for it.
I will do everything I can to achieve these goals, but please explain to me what I should and should not do at my workplace in order to help my beloved company achieve its goals.
I would like to say that this short-formulated strategic concept, we have to break it down into pieces, into component elements, into the actions of the project, set them as tasks for the structural units, provide indicators so that it can be measured, deadlines and surnames, and tie them to the reporting system and necessarily with the stimulation system of the staff.
I would also like to say that this tool that we have considered has been tested in companies of various industries in the last few years, both in production, in trade and in the service sector. It was tested in companies of various sizes, in large corporations, in small hairdressers.
In addition, it was tested in classic businesses focused on making profits and in so-called non-profit organizations that do not seek to maximize profits. At one of the conferences in Germany, I managed to listen to the head of the police department from the city of Offenburg.
In Germany, there is a small city called Offenburg, there is a police department, a police station. The employees who read the book Guru on this topic decided to make a strategic map and a balanced system of indicators for their small organization.
There is a specificity, because they cannot declare profit, capitalization, cost, revenue, purely a flow of money as the final goals they strive for. They have the same four projections, finance, clients, processes and staff, but tied in a slightly different way.
Finance is a budget that they must fit into. As clients, this structure understands the residents of the city in which they exist. There is no competition in this city. There is one police department that cannot work in other cities, and police officers from other cities do not come to this city.
They want to position themselves as an organization that provides security, a quiet sleep for the residents of the city. They themselves periodically question the residents of the city, conduct inquiries about what is good and bad in the work of the police, what they like and do not like, what they could do better.
And inspections from the regional center of Stuttgart come, which also question the residents of the city about what they like and do not like in the work of the police. There are business processes, standard values, the disclosure of crimes, the average arrival time of the car at the scene, there are some decisions on the staff.
This tool is used not only in classical businesses focused on making a profit, but also in the non-profit sector. Non-profit organizations and non-commercial structures also benefit from the use of this tool,
because it allows you to structure thoughts, bring them into the system and break the goals of the organization for the purposes of structural units tied to the system of accountability and motivation of the staff. I hope that you will also be able to do this successfully and successfully implement your own strategy. Thank you for your attention.